KARO:SMMS #catcamp is a show for Sergeant Major Mittensocks, a cat orphaned by his artist mother, Barb Choit, and adopted by Nathan Gwynne. 

Serge is Canadian. He's an orange tabby (like Garfield or Heathcliff). He has a biting problem because he gets over-exited when people like him. He drools when over-relaxed. Most of my friends are a little afraid of him. We don't have detailed records of his provenance as he was a ferile cat who waltzed into Olaf Breuning's studio (during his first adoption he became known as SMMS).

Catvalon is both an imaginary space, and a real place. Though the entrance to catvalon will be sealed shut at the exhibition's opening, making sure the public knows not whether the cat is alive or dead, select collaborators and contributors have been invited to visit the enclosure with the express promise that they will document the exhibition and share imagery, logging the exhibition's state at the time of their visit. It is our fantasy that some people at the party will be able to visualuze a sealed space that they can not enter, but #catcamp is also about social networks, cat pictures, websites, the artworld, quantum physics, manual labor, and Alfred Hitchcock. 

King Arhtur Rock Opera: Sergeant Major Mitten Socks (AKA: KARO:SMMS #catcamp) is a return for Merkx & Gwynne to investigations of classical themes depicted in still life painting. As we work our way up the evolutionary ladder from lobsters to cats we are pleased to introduce Nickolas Typaldos as a formal collaborator in our newly formalized anagram of M&Gw/T.  


the rules of #catcamp are thus defined:


#catcamp

//Rule1: "There is no catcamp." 
    [During the festival of July 7th the doors to Catvalon will be sealed]
    
//Rule2: "Truth to materials."
    [Materials should not be camouflaged. Materials should be used where they're supposed to be used, and their nature should not be hidden, i.e. cardboard and tape, litterboxes and wood.]
    
//Rule3: "Catcamp is cat camoflague."
    [The things in cat camp sould be cat colored, but also made of what are essentially art handling materials, tape, plastic, cardboard, wood.]
    
//Rule4: "Sargexploitation is invite only." 
    [Visitation to catcamp will be limited to cat handlers, photographers, and #catcampers.  The exhibition of cat and #SMMS related artworks will be relegated to the exterior of Catvalon so that it might be enjoyed by the visiting public.  Catvalon is unfortunately closed to the public for the good of the cat.] 
    




The basic idea behind #catcamp is to do a show for Sergeant Major Mittensocks, a cat orphaned by his artist mother, Barb Choit, and adopted by Nathan Gwynne.

Sarge is Canadian. He's an orange tabby (like Garfield or Heathcliff). He has a biting problem because he gets over-exited when people like him. He drools when over-relaxed. Most of my friends are a little afraid of him.

This is basically our art-handling / cat-wrangling / social-networking show where we build an invisible enclosure for SMMS...to enjoy himself alone. You know, like if all dog's go to heaven, but cat's have nine lives, where do they recharge? We're creating kitty paradise, cat Avalon.

Of course we have to keep an eye on him, so there will be live timeandtemp.org webcam feeds with current conditions and perhaps a glimpse of Sarge either relaxing or on patrol. The dominant viewing experience will be VIRTUAL. We're also planning photo-shoots with photographers (the more the better) and we want a big internet shitsmear to build at the same time we're building the installation.

Cardboard trees, mountains, valleys, castles, are things we very much need, and the cardboard castle should probably be awesome, since art handlers build a lot of boxes. We definitely need like, cattails and pussywillows and foliage stuff. Cardboard cattails could be fucking hilarious. Little fairy huts. That kind of stuff would all be amazing. It should also be made clear that ideally SMMS will be able to destroy anything he can get his paws on. 

We have space for other cat projects, so if you already have one... it is also possible to contribute remotely, by tagging with #catcamp, #helpurr, #merkxandgwynne, #smms, #sergeantmajormittensocks, etc.

Documentation of the installation, webcam feeds, opening/closing party, social network posts, etc, will be collected later in the #catcamp cat-alog.

,,,^..^,,,~

Rules of #catcamp

Rule 1: There is no #catcamp. (The show closes on opening day after SMMS gets a couple weeks to chill out, get comfy. SMMS will be the only one who gets to go into #catcamp who isn't an artist worker/participant or digital viewer.)

Rule 2: Truth to materials. (Materials should not be camouflaged. Materials should be used where they're supposed to be used, and their nature should not be hidden, i.e. cardboard and tape, orange and white, sand and wood, etc.)

Rule 3: Interaction
(as yet to be formalized into a rule) 
This is a tricky one, but should be about the hitchcock/peeping tom/web cam/schrodinger's cat phenomena -- referring to the fact that the only way to experience the brilliance of cat avalon is voyeuristically through the internet, via cat-grams, cat-book posts, cat-vines, etc. Or by coming into #catcamp dressed as an art handler / cat handler and signing a contract to post photos (or by signing an inverse confidentially contract of some kind).

I think we need a fourth rule about things being for the cat or something, too. 

(Also this is not really a video set, but is an official King Arthur Rock Opera project so medievalism is rampantly encouraged!)

(=^-ω-^=)

Dates: Builidng starts Sat/Sun 6/22-23 for enclosure wall. Cardboard delivery on Mon 6/24. Ideally we'll be live on the webcam feed and well in the swing of install on the 27th. If building and working in the room is possible with live cat in space, this would be a good time to move SMMS in. Party on Sunday July 7th, with backyard bbq, live music in the afternoon, djs at night. Monday morning, show closes.
